[ZIP 318] Orchard to Ironwood migration (#1317)
zcash/zips: zips/zip-0318.md

  part counts stay small; provisionally: where all of
  $\{1, 2, 5\} \times 10^k$ are available, $1 \times 10^k$ is chosen with 10%
  frequency and $2 \times 10^k$ with 25% frequency ($5 \times 10^k$
  otherwise); where only $\{1, 2\} \times 10^k$ are available, $1 \times 10^k$
  is chosen with 25% frequency. Randomization changes only which canonical
  denominations are emitted, never the values themselves.

* The quantization leaves a deterministic residual of less than
  `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE` (the balance modulo the smallest denomination)
  unmigrated; this residual remains in the *Orchard pool* at the end of the
  migration. Notes individually smaller than `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE` are
  nonetheless migratable, because note preparation may combine them; whether
  consuming a given small note is economic is a ZIP 317 marginal-fee
  consideration. [^zip-0317]

The fee for each part is in addition to its denomination (the visible
Orchard-out value of a part is its denomination plus the canonical fee;
equivalently the *Ironwood* output equals the denomination). Each part is
funded by a single note of exactly this value, produced by note preparation.

### Note preparation transactions

> A migration transaction spends exactly one *Orchard-pool* note (see

Reviewer: Human review/implementation note (will be edited) - don't review:

Let's define $N$ the total balance to migrate. $N$ is decomposed into $l$ quantas, $n_l$, plus $l$ fees. $N = \sum_{i = 1}^l n_i + l * fees$.
The value $N$ is not necessarily the total balance of the wallet user. The total balance of the user can be higher for very large whales, and therefore the denomination/note splitting process will happen multiple times.

The user wallet has $M$ notes, note $M_i$, each of a balance $b_i$.
We want at the end to have a set $M'$ of notes containing, at least, the notes for the quanta $n_l$. The total balance of the notes in M' will be strictly smaller than the balance of the notes in $M$, as transactions incur fees. If we note $B(M)$ the sum of the values of each note in the set $M$, $Q$ the set of notes for the quanta, we have:

$B(M) = B(Q) + B(M' \setminus Q) + l * \text{fees}$

The problem of note preparation is actually a note consolidation problem, which is actually a system of _multilinear_ equations, where variables are existing notes, quanta and changes, with "selectors" between rows to pick or not the previously created changes.
The problem is to create $l$ transactions (we have the constraints below that one note per quanta for the output), at least, from the notes $M_i$.
For each quantum $n_l$, the implementation must select $k$ notes from the set $M$ such that

```math
\sum_{i = 1}^{k} b_{i, l} = n_l + \text{fee} + \text{change}_{l}
```
with $k$ depending on $l$.

The change will go back to a change address authorized by the Orchard pool after NU6.3. This change will become part of a set $M'$.
The consolidation problem will happen in layers, which we can see as a finite sequence of intermediary set $M_k$ which converges to the wanted set $M'$. Why a finite sequence and not directly a set $M'$? Because the change might be needed to create the next quanta.

If we develop the set of $l$ equations, we have the following:

```math
\begin{align}
\sum_{i = 1}^{k_{1}} b_{i, 1}  &                                          & = n_{1} + \text{fee} + c_{1} \\
\sum_{i = 1}^{k_{2}} b_{i, 2} & + p_{1,1} c_{1} & = n_{2} + \text{fee} + c_{2} \\
\sum_{i = 1}^{k_{3}} b_{i, 3} & + p_{1,2} c_{1} + p_{2, 1} c_{2} & = n_{3} + \text{fee} + c_{3} \\
... \\
\sum_{i = 1}^{k_{l}} b_{i, l} & + \sum_{j = 1}^{l - 1} p_{j, t} c_{j} & = n_{l} + \text{fee} + c_{l} \\
\end{align}
```
with $p_{i, t} = 0$ or $p_{i, t} = 1$ depending on using or not the change, and they must be only used once.
We can relax the system by having a set of system of equations (or layers) where all $p_{i, t}$ are equal $0$ within the same system, and $c_{i}$ are reported to the next system. In other words, in each layer, the equations are independent, and we want to minimize the set of layers as more layers mean we need to wait for more transaction confirmations/blocks.

Reviewer: Note: we're getting a DAG of notes.

    (provisionally 144). The anchor height of a migration transaction is drawn
    at random from among past boundaries rather than derived from the wallet's
    own chain tip, so that the anchor does not reveal when a particular wallet
    last synchronized.

Cohort
:   The set of all migration transactions, from all wallets, that share the
    same boundary anchor.

Multiplicity ($k$)
:   The number of migration transactions a single wallet contributes to one
    cohort.

Migration schedule
:   The ordered set of migration transactions, together with their scheduled
    broadcast heights, that a wallet plans in order to complete a migration.

Background scheduling
:   The use of platform mechanisms (for example, *BGTaskScheduler* on iOS or
    *WorkManager* on Android) to broadcast a migration transaction at an
    approximate future time without requiring the user to have the application in
    the foreground.

# Abstract

This ZIP specifies best practices for wallets migrating funds from the
*Orchard pool* to the *Ironwood pool* introduced by the NU6.3 network upgrade
[^zip-0258], a migration that is effectively mandatory (see

> [Motivation](#motivation)). It is written with light client wallets in mind,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Orchard pool* to the *Ironwood pool* introduced by the NU6.3 network upgrade
[^zip-0258]. It is written with light client wallets in mind,
```

because their reliance on a light wallet server and on mobile background
scheduling makes the privacy and reliability concerns most acute, but the same
practices apply to desktop and full-node wallets.

Because a pool-crossing transfer reveals the migrated amount on-chain, directly
sending from one pool to another can reveal the wallet balance. A naive
migration risks linking transfers to a single wallet and to the user's
activity, again potentially revealing balance, and also risking that migration
transactions could be linked to personally identifying information such as IP
addresses. To mitigate this, wallets should decompose the balance into

> standard-sized notes, which may then be sent across the turnstile as multiple

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
notes with values drawn from a fixed set of denominations, which may then
be sent across the turnstile as multiple
```

systems, and synchronization happens against a light wallet server whose operator
is a potential observer. The security analysis of migration strategies is subtle,
and the more obvious strategies leak significant information; this document
records the analysis behind the chosen strategy, including several rejected
alternatives (see [Alternatives](#alternatives)).

The goal of this ZIP is therefore to document how a light client wallet SHOULD
perform the Orchard-to-Ironwood migration so that, by default, individual
transfers are as hard as practical to correlate to a specific wallet or to the
user's behaviour, while still completing the migration reliably and giving the
user enough information to consent to any residual information leakage. The
separate NU6.3 routing change — that new payments to Orchard receivers (inside
existing unified addresses) are sent via the *Ironwood pool* [^zip-2006] — is a
general send-path concern and is out of scope, although the migration
destination is the same *Ironwood* receiver.

# Requirements

* The user can migrate *Orchard-pool* funds to the *Ironwood pool*, and is
  informed that doing so is necessary for the user to be able to preserve

>   the privacy of transaction amounts when spending Orchard funds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The user can migrate *Orchard-pool* funds to the *Ironwood pool*, and is
  informed that using a privacy preserving migration method is necessary for
  the user to be able to preserve the privacy of transaction amounts when
  spending Orchard funds.
```

* Before any funds leave the *Orchard pool*, the wallet obtains the user's consent
  to the public revelation of pool-crossing amounts, consistent with
  ZIP 315. [^zip-0315]

* All *Orchard-pool* funds, except a residual value, are eventually transferred
  to the *Ironwood pool*.

* The migration process, by default, preserves the following privacy
  invariants, to the extent practical on the target platform:

  * **Transfer unlinkability.** An observer cannot cluster the migration
    transactions of a single wallet — by value, structure, anchor, expiry, or
    timing — into a per-wallet set.

  * **Behavioural de-correlation.** Migration broadcasts are de-correlated
    from the user's interaction with the application and from wallet
    synchronization, so that transfers reveal neither when the user opens the

>     application nor when the wallet has synchronized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **Behavioural de-correlation.** Broadcasts of migration transactions are
    de-correlated from the user's interaction with the application and from wallet
    synchronization, so that transfers reveal neither when the user opens the
    application nor when the wallet has synchronized.
```

  of canonical-shaped *Orchard*→*Ironwood* spends (see
  [Rationale for the canonical transaction shape](#rationaleforthecanonicaltransactionshape)),
  and a small residual amount is left unmigrated.

# Specification

## Overview, two-phase architecture

A wallet performing a privacy-preserving migration SHOULD implement it as two
phases:

1. **Note preparation** (see [Phase 1, Note preparation](#phase1notepreparation)):
   quantization of the migratable balance into canonical denominations, followed
   by one or more wallet-internal send-to-self transactions that restructure the
   *Orchard-pool* balance into notes that exactly fund the planned migration
   transactions.

2. **Scheduled migration transactions** (see
   [Phase 2, Scheduled migration transactions](#phase2scheduledmigrationtransactions)):
   pre-signed pool-crossing transfers, each transferring a canonical denomination
   at a scheduled broadcast height with a boundary anchor, broadcast by
   best-effort background tasks.

A wallet MAY offer an immediate single-transfer migration in addition to the
privacy-preserving flow (see
[Migration entry point and user consent](#migrationentrypointanduserconsent)),

> but it MUST present the privacy trade-off of doing so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but it SHOULD present the privacy trade-off of doing so.
```

## Migration entry point and user consent

When a wallet detects a non-zero confirmed-spendable *Orchard-pool* balance
once the NU6.3 network upgrade is scheduled or has activated, it SHOULD surface
a dedicated migration entry point. (Surfacing the entry point before activation
allows note preparation to begin early; see
[Phase 1, Note preparation](#phase1notepreparation).)

* The entry point MUST display the *Orchard-pool*-specific balance at risk, and
  MUST NOT present only a unified total that hides how much is in the

>   *Orchard pool*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The entry point MUST display the *Orchard-pool*-specific balance at risk.
```

  the public revelation of the pool-crossing amounts.

* Once the schedule is confirmed, individual transfers within it SHOULD be
  broadcast automatically when their scheduled broadcast height arrives, and
  SHOULD NOT require separate per-transfer confirmation.

To keep the choice tractable for users who may not know what is best, the wallet
SHOULD minimize the number of privacy-tuning options exposed.

## Phase 1, Note preparation

Note preparation begins with **amount selection**: quantization of the
migratable balance into the canonical denominations that the Phase 2 migration
transactions will transfer. Quantization is necessarily the first step,
because the note-preparation transactions cannot be constructed without
knowing the exact note values they must produce.

### Amount selection, canonical quantization

The migratable *Orchard-pool* balance MUST be decomposed into a set of migration
transactions, each transferring a single denomination. It is RECOMMENDED that
the denominations be selected by **canonical quantization** rather than by
random or arbitrary sizing, because canonical denominations collide across
wallets and therefore resist fingerprinting (see

> [Why value collision provides privacy](#whyvaluecollisionprovidesprivacy)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
random or arbitrary sizing. Canonical denominations collide across wallets
and resist leaking information that can be used for wallet fingerprinting (see
[Why value collision provides privacy](#whyvaluecollisionprovidesprivacy)).
```

A wallet MAY use a different amount-selection strategy provided it achieves the
same effect, namely that migrated amounts collide across the migrating population
rather than fingerprinting the wallet. Random arbitrary amounts do not achieve
this and are a rejected alternative (see
[Alternatives](#alternatives)).

* Permitted denominations are the values $v = n \times 10^k$ ZEC with
  $n \in \{1, 2, 5\}$ and `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE` $\le v <$ `DENOM_CAP`, where:

>   * `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE`, the smallest permitted denomination, is provisionally

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE`, the smallest permitted denomination, is
```

    **0.01 ZEC**; the portion of the balance smaller than this value should not
    be decomposed and is left unmigrated as the residual.

>   * `DENOM_CAP` is provisionally **10000 ZEC plus the canonical fee**, making

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * `DENOM_CAP` is **10000 ZEC plus the canonical fee**, making
```

>     **10000 ZEC** the largest pool-crossing denomination; equivalently,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `DENOM_CAP` is **10000 ZEC plus the canonical fee**, making
    **10000 ZEC** the largest pool-crossing denomination; equivalently,
```

  ```

* The baseline quantization is a **pure, deterministic function of the
  balance**: there is no rare, high-entropy "remainder" output. Every emitted
  denomination is canonical and therefore collision-prone across wallets,
  whether the decomposition is deterministic or randomized (below). This is the
  key privacy property (see [Privacy Implications](#privacyimplications)).

* A wallet MAY randomize the decomposition for improved balance hiding,
  substituting smaller denominations for the greedy choice. At each selection
  step the available options are the denominations $n \times 10^k$, for the
  magnitude $10^k$ of the value remaining, that do not exceed that value.
  Smaller denominations SHOULD be chosen with low frequency so that expected
  part counts stay small; provisionally: where all of
  $\{1, 2, 5\} \times 10^k$ are available, $1 \times 10^k$ is chosen with 10%
  frequency and $2 \times 10^k$ with 25% frequency ($5 \times 10^k$
  otherwise); where only $\{1, 2\} \times 10^k$ are available, $1 \times 10^k$
  is chosen with 25% frequency. Randomization changes only which canonical
  denominations are emitted, never the values themselves.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A wallet SHOULD exclude any preexisting unspent notes that already have quantized
  values from the computation of balance to be migrated; this situation can arise from
  a migration that is resumed after a wallet restore and such notes can be used in
  a Migration Transaction directly.

```

  consuming a given small note is economic is a ZIP 317 marginal-fee
  consideration. [^zip-0317]

The fee for each part is in addition to its denomination (the visible
Orchard-out value of a part is its denomination plus the canonical fee;
equivalently the *Ironwood* output equals the denomination). Each part is
funded by a single note of exactly this value, produced by note preparation.

### Note preparation transactions

A migration transaction spends exactly one *Orchard-pool* note (see
[Canonical migration transaction structure](#canonicalmigrationtransactionstructure)).
The purpose of the note-preparation transactions is to ensure that a note of
exactly the right value exists for every part of the schedule, so that every
part can be funded independently of the others and the entire schedule can be
pre-signed at once. Because Orchard nullifiers are position-independent, the
schedule — including parts that spend preparation outputs — can be signed as
soon as the preparation transactions have been constructed; only proving
requires that the funding notes have been mined and that a candidate boundary
anchor exists (see

> [Anchor-height bucketing and cohorts](#anchor-heightbucketingandcohorts)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
pre-signed at once. After NU6.3, anchors are no longer committed to by signature
digests and therefore migration transactions may be signed as soon as preparation
transactions that construct the notes being spent have been constructed. Only the
proving step requires that the funding notes have been mined and that a candidate
boundary anchor exists (see
[Anchor-height bucketing and cohorts](#anchor-heightbucketingandcohorts)).
```

Whether preparation divides larger notes into smaller ones, combines smaller
notes into larger ones, or both, is purely a function of the wallet's existing
note distribution, and the distinction is not visible on-chain (see
[Rationale for the canonical transaction shape](#rationaleforthecanonicaltransactionshape)).

* Note preparation MUST be implemented as one or more wallet-internal
  send-to-self transactions with no external receiver.

* For mobile wallets, proving time is a concern. Note preparation transactions
  SHOULD be constructed such that each preparation transaction contains exactly
  16 Orchard actions, padding if necessary to reach this threshold. Because a
  bundle's action count is the sum of its spends and outputs (each is paired

>   with a fabricated counterpart under NU6.3), a 16-action transaction can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* For mobile wallets, proving time is a concern. For that reason, and also for
  indistinguishability, Note preparation transactions SHOULD be constructed 
  such that each preparation transaction contains exactly
  16 Orchard actions, padding if necessary to reach this threshold. Because a
  bundle's action count is the sum of its spends and outputs (each is paired
  with a fabricated counterpart under NU6.3), a 16-action transaction can
```

  consume and produce at most 16 notes in total — for example, 15 spends and
  one output when consolidating, or one spend and 15 outputs when splitting.

* The output notes of preparation are determined by the quantization above:
  one note per scheduled part, valued at exactly that part's denomination plus

>   the canonical fee, together with at most one residual note of value less than

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the canonical fee, together with at residual notes with cumulative value less than
```

  `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE`.

* Where the number of notes involved exceeds what a single 16-action
  transaction can accommodate, preparation SHOULD be partitioned into multiple
  transactions with disjoint input notes wherever possible, so that the
  transactions can confirm in parallel rather than chaining through one
  another's outputs.

* Partitioning with disjoint inputs is not always possible: a funding note
  that must combine value from more notes than one transaction can spend
  (consolidation), or a large note that must be divided into more funding
  notes than one transaction can produce (splitting), requires preparation to
  proceed in **layers**, with later preparation transactions spending the
  outputs of earlier ones. Because Orchard nullifiers are
  position-independent, all layers MAY be constructed and signed in a single
  session; however, each layer can be proved and broadcast only after the

>   previous layer's outputs have been mined and witnessed, so each layer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  outputs of earlier ones. While all layers MAY be constructed and signed in 
  a single  session, each layer can be proved and broadcast only after the
  previous layer's outputs have been mined and witnessed, so each layer
```

  boundary-anchor machinery exists to protect the pool-crossing migration
  transactions, whose crossing values are public: their anchors must not
  reveal when a particular wallet synchronized. A preparation transaction is
  a fully shielded send-to-self — its values, direction, and linkage are
  hidden — so its anchor reveals only that some wallet recently synchronized,
  which broadcasting any transaction already reveals. Using the ordinary
  anchor keeps preparation proofs identical to those of routine shielded
  spends and lets successive layers proceed without waiting out boundary
  intervals.

* The broadcasts of a wallet's preparation transactions SHOULD be temporally
  decoupled from one another: the delay from each preparation transaction to
  the next is drawn (using a CSPRNG) from an exponential distribution with
  mean `PREP_MEAN_DELAY` (provisionally **24 blocks**, about thirty minutes
  at 75-second block spacing), rounded to a whole number of blocks, with any
  draw exceeding `PREP_MAX_DELAY` (provisionally **96 blocks**, about two
  hours) discarded and redrawn; a later layer's schedule begins after the

>   previous layer's last scheduled transaction plus a small mining margin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  mean `PREP_MEAN_DELAY` (**24 blocks**, about thirty minutes at 75-second 
  block spacing), rounded to the nearest whole number of blocks, with any
  draw exceeding `PREP_MAX_DELAY` (**96 blocks**, about two
  hours) discarded and redrawn; a later layer's schedule begins after the
  previous layer's last scheduled transaction plus a small mining margin.
```

  Although preparation values are fully shielded, a burst of identically
  shaped padded transactions appearing at a single moment is itself a
  linkable cluster — by shape and timing — and such a burst would also
  visibly precede the wallet's scheduled transfers. The much tighter spacing
  relative to the transfers' `MEAN_DELAY` is possible precisely because no
  anchor bucketing constrains preparation, and keeps the preparation phase
  short while preventing the cluster.

* It is RECOMMENDED that a wallet require note preparation to have completed
  before beginning Phase 2 of a privacy-preserving migration. If the wallet's
  existing notes already exactly fund every planned part, note preparation MAY

>   be skipped.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If the wallet's existing notes already exactly fund every planned part, note preparation MAY
  be skipped.
```

* Note preparation MAY be performed at any time after the user initiates the
  migration, including before the network upgrade that activates the
  *Ironwood pool* has finalized. Performing it early MUST NOT degrade the user's

>   normal transacting experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  *Ironwood pool* has finalized.
```

* If notes are not prepared before the *Ironwood pool* activates, the wallet
  MUST either perform the preparation afterwards or accept that migration
  transactions funded by change from earlier ones cannot be spent within the
  same anchor-height bucket as the transaction that produced the change,
  incurring longer waits.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

* Exact-value funding notes SHOULD bake the canonical fee into note values at
  preparation time.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Phase 2, Scheduled migration transactions

### Canonical migration transaction structure

Each migration transaction SHOULD have:

* exactly one *Orchard* spend, with the Orchard bundle padded to exactly two
  actions, so that the presence or absence of an *Orchard* change output is not
  observable;
* exactly one *Ironwood* output, whose value is a single canonical denomination,
  in a single-action *Ironwood* bundle with no padding action (see
  [Rationale for the canonical transaction shape](#rationaleforthecanonicaltransactionshape));
* no transparent inputs or outputs;
* no spends from any pool other than *Orchard*;
* the canonical fee (provisionally the ZIP 317 minimum fee) [^zip-0317];
* the canonical anchor described in
  [Anchor-height bucketing and cohorts](#anchor-heightbucketingandcohorts) and
  the canonical expiry height described below;
* `lock_time = 0`;
* no nonstandard fee amount or any other outputs (this would partition the
  anonymity set between wallets that add such outputs and those that do not).

The canonical expiry height is computed from the transaction's scheduled
broadcast height: take the most recent height at or below it that

> `EXPIRY_MODULUS` (provisionally **34560 blocks**, 30 days at 75-second block

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`EXPIRY_MODULUS` (the number of blocks corresponding to 30 days, 34560 blocks at 75-second block
```

spacing) divides without remainder, and add 2 × `EXPIRY_MODULUS`
(69120 blocks): a rolling window that guarantees every transaction between one
and two months of validity from its scheduled broadcast. Unlike the anchor,
the expiry height is committed by the transaction digest [^zip-0229] and is
therefore fixed when the schedule is signed; because the schedule precomputes
every broadcast height (see [Transfer scheduling](#transferscheduling)), the
expiry is nonetheless known at signing time. The bucketed rule makes the
committed value identical for every migration transaction — from any wallet —
whose scheduled broadcast falls within the same 30-day period, so an expiry
height reveals only the coarse period in which its broadcast was scheduled,
information the broadcast itself substantially makes public. (Deriving the
expiry from the construction height instead would reveal the otherwise
unobservable period in which the wallet's schedule was created, and would
deny the late parts of a long schedule their full validity window, forcing

> needless rebuilds.) For example, NU6.3 activates at height 3428143, so every

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
needless rebuilds.) For example, NU6.3 activates at Mainnet height 3428143, so every
```

  proving time, is drawn (using a CSPRNG) from a geometric distribution with
  parameter **1/2** — so the most recent boundary is never used, the most
  probable age is one boundary, and the mean age is two boundaries (about six
  hours). A draw exceeding `ANCHOR_AGE_CAP` (provisionally **16 boundaries**,
  about two days) or falling outside the candidate set MUST be discarded and
  redrawn; equivalently, the distribution is truncated to the candidate set.

* The set of all migration transactions sharing a boundary anchor forms a
  **cohort**. A wallet MAY contribute several migration transactions to the
  same cohort (multiplicity $k \geq 1$), because all denominations are
  canonical and therefore not attributable to a single wallet by their values
  (see [On multiplicity and cohorts](#onmultiplicityandcohorts)).

* Per-wallet multiplicity is not chosen directly: it emerges from the
  schedule and the independent anchor-age draws. A wallet SHOULD nonetheless
  bound its multiplicity at `K_MAX` per cohort, redrawing an anchor age
  whenever a draw would place more than `K_MAX` of its own parts on the same
  boundary (see [Whale handling](#whalehandling)).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
There's no point in limiting the number of transactions that can occur in an interval, so long as we're drawing randomly from the exponential distribution we shouldn't truncate the outcome of those draws by instituting an arbitrary cap.

  data rather than in the signature hash [^zip-0229], the wallet can attach
  or update a pre-signed transaction's anchor and proof without re-signing.

* Whenever the application is granted background processing time, the wallet
  SHOULD synchronize and construct the proofs of upcoming scheduled
  transactions, drawing each transaction's anchor from the candidate anchor
  set as observed at proving time, but MUST NOT broadcast a migration
  transaction within the same background processing window in which a
  synchronization is performed (see
  [Decoupling synchronization from broadcast](#decouplingsynchronizationfrombroadcast)).

* Spreading a wallet's transfers over time with memoryless inter-transfer
  delays, and drawing each transfer's anchor independently, are the primary
  means by which the wallet's own transfers are kept from being linked to one
  another; distinct per-wallet anchor heights are **not** required, because a
  shared boundary anchor carries no per-wallet information.

* `MEAN_DELAY`, `MAX_DELAY`, `PREP_MEAN_DELAY`, `PREP_MAX_DELAY`, and the
  bucket interval $M$ are open points for the Zcash core team; see
  [Open issues](#openissues).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

* Under the version 6 transaction format, the anchor is committed as
  authorizing data rather than by the signature hash [^zip-0229], so a
  pre-signed transaction's anchor and proof can be updated at (or near)
  broadcast time without re-signing. This is what allows the entire schedule
  to be signed in a single session while each transaction carries a boundary
  anchor drawn from the shared candidate set (see
  [Rationale for anchor selection](#rationaleforanchorselection)).

* If a stored transaction becomes invalid (for example, because its input notes
  were spent outside the migration, or it expired), the wallet MUST detect this
  and prompt the user to re-initiate the affected step (see
  [Error handling](#errorhandling)).

### Background scheduling

* Background scheduling MUST be treated as best-effort. The operating system
  chooses the exact execution time within the requested window.

* A single background processing window MUST be used either to synchronize
  (updating the anchors and proofs of upcoming transactions) or to broadcast,
  never both (see
  [Decoupling synchronization from broadcast](#decouplingsynchronizationfrombroadcast)).

> * If a scheduled window is missed, the wallet MUST fall back to prompting the user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If a scheduled window is missed, the wallet MAY fall back to prompting the user
```

  on the next application open (see
  [Fallback on application open](#fallbackonapplicationopen)).

Platform-specific guidance is given in
[Platform considerations](#platformconsiderations).

### Decoupling synchronization from broadcast

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

A background session is defined as a period of time wherein the wallet is
performing computation and network interaction decoupled from any
user interaction with the wallet interface. While a background session 
and user interaction with the wallet interface may coincide, the wallet
MUST NOT permit the user's behavior to influence the execution of
the background operations.

```

* The wallet MUST NOT perform a wallet synchronization in the same background
  session as a migration broadcast, because doing so would let an observer

>   correlate the synchronization with the broadcast.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  correlate the synchronization (which may leak wallet-identifying data) with the broadcast.
```

* Where a synchronization is needed, it MUST be separated in time from any
  broadcast. In the recommended flow migration transactions produce no
  *Orchard-pool* change, so the required synchronizations are the one that
  witnesses the notes produced by note preparation before the first scheduled
  send, and the routine background synchronizations that allow the proofs of
  upcoming transactions to be constructed (see
  [Transfer scheduling](#transferscheduling)). A migration transaction that
  produces change in the *Orchard pool* (for example, one rebuilt during error
  recovery) requires the wallet to synchronize before that change can be spent;
  the wallet MUST schedule that synchronization decoupled in time from the
  broadcast of the next migration transaction.

The minimum synchronization required before the first scheduled send (for example,
to witness the notes produced by note preparation), and how a wallet determines

> when a synchronization is needed, are open points.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

How a wallet determines when a synchronization is needed is implementation-defined.
```

### Fallback on application open

* On every application launch, the wallet MUST reconcile the scheduled broadcast
  times against the transfers actually completed, and MUST surface any overdue
  transfers. This on-launch reconciliation is the primary catch-up mechanism and
  MUST NOT rely on notification delivery.

> * When the user is prompted to send overdue transfers, the wallet MUST disclose

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When the user is prompted to send overdue transfers, the wallet SHOULD disclose
```

  that sending them at application-open time correlates the broadcasts with the
  wallet's sync activity, weakening the privacy of those transfers.

> * The wallet MUST NOT send more than one overdue transfer at wallet open.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The wallet MUST NOT send more than one overdue transfer at wallet open.
  While this may delay the migration of user funds, the alternative (sending
  multiple transactions with pool-crossing value within the same session)
  leaks balance. 
```

  the scheduled broadcast heights.
* A single Worker execution MUST either synchronize (updating anchors and
  proofs) or broadcast, never both.
* OEM battery-optimization behaviour (for example on MIUI or One UI) may suppress
  tasks even when permissions are granted; this is acknowledged as a known
  limitation. During onboarding the wallet SHOULD request a battery-optimization
  exemption to improve reliability, and MUST continue to function (relying on the
  on-launch fallback) if the exemption is denied.
* On every application launch, the wallet MUST reconcile whether a pending
  transfer is overdue and surface the fallback prompt if needed.
* WorkManager task persistence across reboots SHOULD be verified by the
  implementation; if a boot receiver is used to re-enqueue tasks, the relevant
  platform permission must be declared.

## Status notifications

* On a successful transfer, the wallet MAY show a notification.

* On a failed transfer, the wallet MUST surface the failure with the ability to
  retry. The retry affordance SHOULD lead to a self-contained screen that does not
  start a synchronization.

> * Notification delivery MUST NOT be relied upon as the primary status mechanism;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Notification delivery SHOULD NOT be relied upon as the primary status mechanism;
```

  on-launch reconciliation is primary (see
  [Fallback on application open](#fallbackonapplicationopen)).

* On platforms where notifications can be cleared by a reboot or suppressed by the
  OS or OEM managers (notably Android), the wallet MUST disclose that notification
  delivery is not guaranteed and MUST direct the user to return to the application
  to check progress.

## Progress visibility

The wallet SHOULD report migration progress.

## User-facing copy requirements

> Because background scheduling is best-effort, product copy MUST NOT describe the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because background scheduling is best-effort, product copy SHOULD NOT describe the
```

  the confirmed-spendable *Orchard-pool* balance is greater than zero while the
  next scheduled migration transaction is missing or invalid), MUST notify the
  user of the failure, and MUST construct a revised schedule for the remaining
  unspent balance using a fresh anchor. The screen that does so MUST be
  self-contained and MUST NOT trigger a synchronization. A rebuilt transaction
  MAY produce change in the *Orchard pool*: the canonical shape hides whether
  change is present, so this carries no privacy penalty, only the operational
  cost of a later synchronization to recover the change.

* **Expired transaction.** A pre-signed transaction that reaches its expiry height
  [^zip-0203] before being broadcast MUST be detected on the next application open
  and handled in the same way as an invalid transaction: a new transaction with a
  fresh anchor and expiry is constructed for the affected part, with its
  denomination unchanged.

* **Canonical fee change.** Exact-value funding notes bake the canonical fee
  into note values at preparation time. If the canonical fee changes between
  preparation and broadcast, the affected pre-signed parts no longer match the

>   canonical structure and MUST be rebuilt (producing or consuming the difference

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  canonical structure and SHOULD be rebuilt (producing or consuming the difference
```

  as *Orchard-pool* change) or the remaining balance re-prepared. This carries
  no privacy penalty, but costs an additional confirmation round.

* **Negligible remaining balance.** If, after the last scheduled transfer, only an
  amount below a significance threshold remains (for example, due to fee
  rounding), the wallet MAY treat the migration as complete and inform the user
  that a negligible amount remains. If the remaining amount is above

>   `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE`, the wallet SHOULD add a final transfer. Wallets SHOULD

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  `MAX_RESIDUAL_VALUE`, the wallet MAY add a final transfer. Wallets SHOULD
```

[^BCP14]: [Information on BCP 14, "RFC 2119: Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" and "RFC 8174: Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp14)

[^protocol]: [Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2025.6.3 [NU6.1] or later](protocol/protocol.pdf)

[^protocol-networks]: [Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2025.6.3 [NU6.1]. Section 3.12: Mainnet and Testnet](protocol/protocol.pdf#networks)

[^zip-0200]: [ZIP 200: Network Upgrade Mechanism](zip-0200.rst)

[^zip-0203]: [ZIP 203: Transaction Expiry](zip-0203.rst)

[^zip-0209]: [ZIP 209: Prohibit Negative Shielded Chain Value Pool Balances](zip-0209.rst)

[^zip-0229]: [ZIP 229: Version 6 Transaction Format](zip-0229.md)

[^zip-0244]: [ZIP 244: Transaction Identifier Non-Malleability](zip-0244.rst)

[^zip-0258]: [ZIP 258: Deployment of the NU6.3 Network Upgrade](zip-0258.md)

[^zip-0308]: [ZIP 308: Sprout to Sapling Migration](zip-0308.rst)

[^zip-0315]: [ZIP 315: Best Practices for Wallet Implementations](zip-0315.rst)

[^zip-0317]: [ZIP 317: Proportional Transfer Fee Mechanism](zip-0317.rst)

[^zip-2005]: [ZIP 2005: Ironwood Quantum Recoverability](zip-2005.md)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> [^zip-2006]: [ZIP 2006: Orchard Consensus Changes for NU6.3 (Ironwood)](zip-2006.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[^zip-2006]: [ZIP 2006: Restricting Transfers into the Orchard Pool](zip-2006.md)
```
